
                  Pirate Stick v0.0.1 - Thomas Freedman - 3/3/2022

This Pirate Stick is an evolution of the Pirate Box from Thomas Freedman. It is a prototype platform to build a more refined and grandpa friendly product focused on communications using services built with IPFS, Reticulum, yggdrasil, Nomadnet, XMPP and Tox. A functional mesh networked system capable of utilizing the Internet, LoRa, packet switched radio and other physical transport systems is envisioned.

Booting the Pirate Stick operating system from a USB3 enabled computer will feel and perform like it was installed at the factory, providing plenty of fast, SSD (Solid State Drive) storage for saving videos and other large files. It is a fast USB device that can be used with any computer capable of booting from a USB device which will not alter or leave any trace of use on the host system that boots from it. 

The Pirate Stick is built upon MX Linux AHS-21 (Advanced Hardware Support) which Distro Watch rated the #1 Linux operating system for the 2nd year. Although built with AHS for the most modern hardware, The Pirate Stick will also work well with old hardware. It has been tested to boot and function with as little as 1GB or RAM from a USB2 port.

This release of the Pirate Stick includes most of the functionality of the Pirate Box software it has evoled from. It also includes an installer so you can permanently install the Pirate Stick operating system onto a computer's internal storage (hard drive or solid state). Here are some of the capabilities available with this alpha release:

--------------------------------------------------
Basic IPFS Node and User Interface

This is provided through the Chromium web browser with the IPFS Companion extension, which is the same User Interface found in IPFS Desktop. Node status, real time graphics of network utilization, ability to view, download, pin and unpin files, inspect IPFS configuration and other useful tools are provided. See  https://github.com/ipfs-shipyard/ipfs-companion or  https://docs.ipfs.io/install/ipfs-desktop/#windows.  

----------------------------------------
Pirate Stick IPFS Search Tool

This tool implements IPFS search functionality based on metadata collected when content is added to an IPFS node. Currently a rich set of metadata is collected for video and audio sources such as youtube, odysee, lrby, vimeo and over 1000 other Internet platforms.

The search tool uses the metadata to build a searchable database that allows the user to keep track of and find content of interest they have downloaded, or that other Pirate Stick users have downloaded that choose to publish their libraries.

It's important to note only content captured by the Video Grabber tool is currently searchable. Two IPFS video / audio repositories with well over 12,000 items published in the past 3 years from platforms such as youtube, Vimeo, Brightcove and others are searchable. New content is provided daily and is within the scope of the search tool. Content from over 20 publishers is provided on those 2 IPFS repositories. In addition, the "Liberty Library" content is also searchable (see below).

Audio and video content added to the Pirate Stick IPFS node using the Pirate Stick Video Grabber program is also searchable. All that is required is to enter a list of URLs and the video grabber will add those items to IPFS and to the database for easy tracking and searching based on a wide variety of search criteria.

----------------------------------------------
Pirate Stick Video Grabber (Still referred to as PBVG)

The PBVG tool was originally developed as a command line program that uses the popular youtube-dl software to download content from a list of over 1000 platforms such as youtube and Vimeo. The full functionality of the program is available as a  "batch" oriented command line tool. The Pirate Stick also provides a simple GUI front end to obtain content from a list of URLs. Content obtained this way is also searchable using the Pirate Stick Search tool.

Batch mode operation provides a higher degree of selectivity for gathering content using filter criteria such as upload date, duration of play and download quota limits. In addition, content from many different publishers on various platforms can be collected frequently. A scheduler such as cron can automate collection of content from your favorite sources on a regular basis.

The content to be captured by the PBVG is defined in a JSON formated config file that specifies the URLs to download content from, which can be individual files, channels or playlists. Metadata for each item downloaded is also collected. The metadata and the video / audio content files are stored in a SQLite database and published at a static IPnS address for retrieval and use by search engines.

--------------------
Liberty Library

This release of the Pirate Stick includes software infrastructure that supports plug & play content referred to as Liberty Libraries. Portable USB storage devices and USB sticks in very large capacities  can store huge volumes of information on a  simple USB stick. One example is a 512GB USB drive containing almost 1800 long play format (60 - 90 minutes each) video and audio files saved on IPFS over the last 3 years by Thomas Freedman. This content is available and can be pinned on Pirate Stick IPFS nodes or saved on portable Liberty Library devices. Liberty Library content can also be searched with the Pirate Stick Search tool described above.

----------------------
Hotspot Control

The autohotspot software used on the Pirate Box is not compatible with the more sophisticated Network Manager used by the MX Linux operating system on the Pirate Stick. Hotspot control for the PirateStick is now accomplished using the create_ap script from , and includes the ability to start the computer with an active hotspot and use the same WiFi interface for connecting to the Internet and the hotspot. 

----------------------------------------
Upgrade to External Storage

This utility was created for the Pirate Box to migrate IPFS storage from the internal SD Card to an external USB drive. It is retained on the Pirate Stick as it may be useful when the Pirate Stick operating system is permanentlly installed on a computer and it's internal space is consumed. With this utility it is now possible to migrate or upgrade the storage used for a permaent IPFS repository to an external USB device such as a portable hardrive or Solid State Drive (SSD).

---------------------------------------
Offline IPFS Documentation

Everything you might want or need to know about IPFS is included with the complete copy of the IPFS documentation from the docs.ipfs.io website, updated slightly for use on the Pirate Stick while offline. Tutorials & tools are included for migrating websites to IPFS. 

------------------------
Nginx Webserver

To serve the documentation and provide support for other homegrown web applications, the Pirate Stick has it's very own webserver. 

---------------------------------
Support for Moonbeam

Moonbeam, a self publisher solution from agoristhosting.com is a browser based application that provides a way to capture and publish content to IPFS. When Moonbeam becomes available, it can be used on the Pirate Stick. A simple to use tool to create, list and remove keys for use with Moonbeam or IPNS is now included.

These "Moonbeam" keys can also be used to publish the metadata you collect using the Pirate Stick Video Grabber tool. 

---------------------------------
Communications Support

The Pirate Stick includes several applications and other communications support tools to help you stay in contact using a variety of ways or to facilitate developing your own communications networks. Offline documentation for IPFS, Reticulum and yggdrasil are provided, and chat applications such as Prosody XMPP, Tox, Nomadnet are included.
